---
layout: post
title: Genesis 30
category: passages
---

# [Genesis 30](http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=genesis%2030&version=MSG)

> When Rachel realized that she wasn’t having any children for Jacob, she
> became jealous of her sister. She told Jacob, "Give me sons or I’ll die!"
> 
> Jacob got angry with Rachel and said, "Am I God? Am I the one who refused you
> babies?"
>
> Rachel said, "Here’s my maid Bilhah. Sleep with her. Let her substitute for
> me so I can have a child through her and build a family." So she gave him her
> maid Bilhah for a wife and Jacob slept with her. Bilhah became pregnant and
> gave Jacob a son.

I'm not really sure how adultery-by-permission counts as having a kid yourself,
but whatever.  I guess it's like an old-school surrogate pregnancy.

> Rachel said, "God took my side and vindicated me. He listened to me and gave
> me a son." She named him Dan (Vindication). Rachel’s maid Bilhah became
> pregnant again and gave Jacob a second son. Rachel said, "I’ve been in an
> all-out fight with my sister—and I’ve won." So she named him Naphtali
> (Fight).

These women should really get some less intense way of fighting than having
babies.

> When Leah saw that she wasn’t having any more children, she gave her maid
> Zilpah to Jacob for a wife. Zilpah had a son for Jacob. Leah said, "How
> fortunate!" and she named him Gad (Lucky). When Leah’s maid Zilpah had a
> second son for Jacob, Leah said, "A happy day! The women will congratulate me
> in my happiness." So she named him Asher (Happy).

I see you've adopted your opponent's views on birthright legitimacy.

> One day during the wheat harvest Reuben found some mandrakes in the field and
> brought them home to his mother Leah. Rachel asked Leah, "Could I please have
> some of your son’s mandrakes?"
>
> Leah said, "Wasn’t it enough that you got my husband away from me? And now
> you also want my son’s mandrakes?"
>
> Rachel said, "All right. I’ll let him sleep with you tonight in exchange for
> your son’s love-apples."

Seriously, what the FUCK?

> When Jacob came home that evening from the fields, Leah was there to meet
> him: "Sleep with me tonight; I’ve bartered my son’s mandrakes for a night
> with you." So he slept with her that night.  God listened to Leah; she became
> pregnant and gave Jacob a fifth son. She said, "God rewarded me for giving my
> maid to my husband."

Oh, sure, I'm certain that's exactly what you should be getting out of this.

> She named him Issachar (Bartered). Leah became pregnant yet again and gave
> Jacob a sixth son, saying, "God has given me a great gift. This time my
> husband will honor me with gifts—I’ve given him six sons!" She named him
> Zebulun (Honor). Last of all she had a daughter and named her Dinah.

That poor girl.

> And then God remembered Rachel. God listened to her and opened her womb.

The way this story goes, God can only handle one pregnancy at a time.  Somehow
I feel his parallel processing skills are a *bit* superior to that.

> She became pregnant and had a son. She said, "God has taken away my
> humiliation." She named him Joseph (Add), praying, "May God add yet another
> son to me."
>
> After Rachel had had Joseph, Jacob spoke to Laban, "Let me go back home.
> Give me my wives and children for whom I’ve served you. You know how hard
> I’ve worked for you."
> 
> Laban said, "If you please, I have learned through divine inquiry that God
> has blessed me because of you."

R-ight.  And not the vast amounts of wealth you've built up.

>  He went on, "So name your wages. I’ll pay you."
>
> Jacob replied, "You know well what my work has meant to you and how your
> livestock has flourished under my care. The little you had when I arrived has
> increased greatly; everything I did resulted in blessings for you. Isn’t it
> about time that I do something for my own family?"
> 
> "So, what should I pay you?"
> 
> Jacob said, "You don’t have to pay me a thing. But how about this? I will go
> back to pasture and care for your flocks. Go through your entire flock today
> and take out every speckled or spotted sheep, every dark-colored lamb, every
> spotted or speckled goat. They will be my wages. That way you can check on my
> honesty when you assess my wages. If you find any goat that’s not speckled or
> spotted or a sheep that’s not black, you will know that I stole it."
> 
> "Fair enough," said Laban. "It’s a deal."
> 
> But that very day Laban removed all the mottled and spotted billy goats
> and all the speckled and spotted nanny goats, every animal that had even a
> touch of white on it plus all the black sheep and placed them under the care
> of his sons. Then he put a three-day journey between himself and Jacob.
> Meanwhile Jacob went on tending what was left of Laban’s flock.
> 
> But Jacob got fresh branches from poplar, almond, and plane trees and
> peeled the bark, leaving white stripes on them. He stuck the peeled branches
> in front of the watering troughs where the flocks came to drink. When the
> flocks were in heat, they came to drink and mated in front of the streaked
> branches.  Then they gave birth to young that were streaked or spotted or
> speckled. Jacob placed the ewes before the dark-colored animals of Laban.
> That way he got distinctive flocks for himself which he didn’t mix with
> Laban’s flocks. And when the sturdier animals were mating, Jacob placed
> branches at the troughs in view of the animals so that they mated in front of
> the branches. But he wouldn’t set up the branches before the feebler animals.
> That way the feeble animals went to Laban and the sturdy ones to Jacob.
> 
> The man got richer and richer, acquiring huge flocks, lots and lots of
> servants, not to mention camels and donkeys.

Jacob's one conniving son of a bitch.

